Group meetings
==============

This page applies to these departments so far: **CS, NBE, PHYS** (if
others want to join, let us know).

We would like to meet with each research group once a year.  This
isn't to advertise stuff to you, but to hear what you all need but
can't get, so that we can help you with that.  A group meeting
consists of your group plus other technical services staff
(Science-IT, CS-IT, etc.) which are relevant for your group's work.
Hopefully, we can immediately solve some of your major problems.  Your
group will come away better able to use the best possible services,
and we will come away knowing what to focus on in the next year.



Practical matters
-----------------

Ideally, someone (Science-IT, CS-IT, etc.) contacts your group leader
to arrange a time.  On the other hand, **contact your most local
(department) anytime to arrange a group meeting** - we are always
happy for an eager audience.  Your local support will request all the
other relevant parties to be there.

The group meeting would happen whenever is most convenient for you -
for example, during your regular group meetings.  **Please propose the
best times for you**.  One hour is sufficient.

**You don't need any particular preparation**.  If you do anything,
think about what computational/data/software tools you use and what
problems you have - you could have one or a few people tell about
the typical workflows of the group.



Topics
------

* Reminder of services available at Aalto and your department (short)

  * Computers and devices
  * Computing: local servers, :doc:`Triton </triton/index>`, `CSC
    <https://docs.csc.fi>`__, etc.  What do you usually use?
  * Data
  * Close specialist support teams

    * Department
    * :doc:`Science-IT </about/science-it>`
    * :doc:`/rse/index`
    * Aalto IT Services

* News: Latest changes or improvements (short)
* Stories from the field: how do *you* do your work?
* Feedback: How do you do your work now?  What works well?  What
  doesn't work well?  What do you need in the future?  **Tell us all
  your complaints**, because we can't work on the right things without
  them. (long)



News / topical items, 2022
--------------------------

* GPUs: limited numbers, future procurement, using more efficiently.
* :doc:`RSE service </rse/index>`, where and how to use.
* Have you seen our latest :doc:`teaching </training/index>`.




Discussion starters
-------------------

* Data

  * Where you store and share data
  * Data-driven research: need more support?
  * Department (project, archive), Triton (scratch), cloud, any other
    needs?
  * Management: collection, storage, transfer, archive, sharing.
  * What do you usually use?

* Computing

  * Cloud vs shared workstations vs personal workstations vs laptops
  * Desktops, laptops
  * Scientific computing, software needs
  * GPUs
  * Software installation
  * Containers for difficult to run software (docker, singularity, etc)
  * Open OnDemand
  * Virtual machines
  * Cloud computing (CS, Openstack at CSC, Azure)

* Support

  * Support channels
  * Software development: (tools, best practices, collaboration)
  * :doc:`RSE service </rse/index>`
  * How to more closely support teaching/research

* General services

  * WWW servers
  * Jupyter Notebooks, A+
  * CSC services
  * Email

* Open Science / Open Data / Open Access
* Usability, accessibility, etc.
* Teaching




See also
--------

* :doc:`/aalto/welcomeresearchers`
