Boilerplate text for grant proposals
====================================

Below are various texts which describe our resources, suitable for
inclusion in grant applications an the like.  There are various types
suitable for different purposes.

If you create your own texts and would like to share them, send them
to us.

Focus on Triton
---------------

Computing and modelling are strategic areas of Aalto University. To
support research in these scopes the university is committed to
provide proper hardware resources and supporting personnel on long
term basis. Currently we provide a system with about 5200 computing
cores. The System also contains 27 servers with 2-8 NVIDIA cards for
GPU computing and over 2 PB of fast storage capacity suitable for Big
Data needs. All parts are connected with a fast Infiniband network to
support parallel computing and fast data access. To keep the resources
competitive we annually upgrade the system based on the needs of
researchers.

All resources are integrated with the national resources allowing easy
migration to even larger resources when necessary. These include
e.g. University dedicated OpenStack based cloud resources and access
to thousands of servers via the national computing grid. Furthermore
we provide much preconfigured software and hands on support to make
the usage for researchers as effective as possible. On the personnel
side we have five permanent Ph.D. level staff to keep the system
running and providing teaching and consultation for researchers.


Focus on data
-------------

Computing and data are strategic areas in Aalto University.

The university provides data management and computing solutions
throughtout the data lifecycle.  The university provides free storage
to researchers of essentially unlimited size, provided that the data
is managed well.  Data storage includes 2PB of high-performance Lustre
filesystem space connected directly to a computing cluster for
efficient and secure analysis, and 1PB of reliable, backed-up storage
space for longer-term storage.  Expert staff, both technical and
administrative, provide advice and hands-on support in data storage,
computation, FAIR principles, data management planning, as well as
computation.

Data management is designed with a focus on security.  Recommended
storage locations are centrally located for security.  Computing nodes and data storage servers are physically located at CSC, Keilaranta 14, Espoo. The server room is certified security level 3 (VAHTI-3) i.e. only authorized personnel with clearance are given access to it and there is continuous camera surveillance. All data is
access controlled by passwords and individual-level authorization, and
firewalled to university networks.



Research software engineering services
--------------------------------------

(this text must especially be tuned to your grant)

This grant will make use of the Aalto Research Software Engineer
program to hire high-quality TOPIC specialists.  This program provides
PhD-level specialists to work on THINGS, which allows the other staff
on this project to focus on YYY.  These staff do not need to be
independently recruited, are available for consultation before and
answer the project.  This service is provided by Aalto Scientific
Computing, which also provides high-performance computing resources.
The Research Software Engineering service is integrated into computing
services as a consistent package.

(for basic service, for now only SCI) This service is available as a
basic consulting service for free.

(for paid services) This project receives dedicated service from the
Research Software Engineering group, funded as researcher salary from
this project.  During this period, the research engineer joins this
project as a researcher, equal to all other project employees.



Acknowledgement for papers
--------------------------

Remember you need to in your papers if you use it.  See the
:doc:`acknowledging Triton page </triton/acknowledgingtriton>` for
instructions on how to do that and some boilerplate text
