For group leaders
=================

You, or someone in your group, has requested :doc:`Research Software
Engineer <../index>` services for one of your group's projects.  This
service provides specialist support for software, data, and open
science so that you can focus on the science that is interesting to
you.  You probably have some questions about an outsider coming in to
your project, and this page will answer those practical questions.
For researchers using our services, also see :doc:`how-we-work`.

There are two funding strategies:

* Short term (a few days or less) might be funded by your department.
* Longer term is funded from your own projects.



Access to data
--------------

Our goal is not to come in, wave our hands, and leave you with
something unusable.  Instead, we want to come in and set you up to
work yourself in the future.  Thus, (if it's necessary) we'll want the
same access to your group's data/workspace/tools as you have.

This access is removed after the project is finished.  We will try to
remember this, but sometimes projects drag on with no clear ending (or
you want long-term consultation), so you should also pay attention to
this.  Out of principle (+ policies), we don't use admin access to
access any of your data.



NDAs, intellectual property, etc.
---------------------------------

The RSE staff are Aalto employees and are automatically bound to
confidentiality, and have signed the same extra confidentiality
agreement that Aalto IT system administrators have, and are similarly
vetted.

Using our services doesn't affect your intellectual property right any
more than another employee working on the project will.  This is
service-for-pay, so you get all rights.  However, our RSEs expect to
be acknowledged according to good scientific practice (see
:doc:`how-we-work`).



Funding
-------

If the project lasts a short time (a few days or less), and you are in
one of the :doc:`sponsoring units <procedures/units-info>`, then the service may
be *free* (depending on your unit's policies).

Otherwise, you will be expected to fund the RSEs out of your own
projects or basic funding.  This is done by adding the your project
numbers to the RSE's Halli, so that their salary can be directly paid
from your project.  The advantage is that this is identical to
researcher funding, so it is compatible with almost all pre-existing grants.

We will contact you and your department's controller to set the
budget and get things set up.  (If you are reading this, you are one
of the pilot cases so we'll figure it out together.)



New grants
----------

If you are applying for a new grant, you can directly write Research
Software Engineering services into your grant (or some similar name
that sounds good to your reviewers).  See :doc:`grant-applicants`.
